                           Casey West - Résumé


Contact Information:

Casey West

Email: casey@geeknest.com
URL: http://caseywest.com
URL: http://github.com/cwest
URL: http://www.linkedin.com/in/caseywest


Professional Summary:

    I specialize in highly available, maintainable, scalable solutions
    with a focus on developer, community, and user experience.
    
    I empower teams to deliver outstanding results under difficult
    constraints by building teams with culture and tools that promote
    happiness and productivity.
    

Employment History:

    Principle Technologist for Cloud Foundry
    Pivotal
    June 2015-Present
    
    Technical advocate for Pivotal's open source and commercial products
    including Cloud Foundry, Concourse CI, PCFDev, and Spring Boot.
    Community ambassador for the Cloud Foundry Foundation.
    
    International speaker on software engineering, software
    architecture, devops, platforms, continuous delivery, and modern
    infrastructure giving hundreds of talks, tutorials, and training
    sessions per year.
    
    Advisor to global fortune 2000 and United States F500 companies
    delivering business value with Pivotal's software, tools, and
    techniques.
    
    
    UI Architect & DevOps Architect
    WhiteHat Security
    November 2012-June2015
    
    Software Architect and team lead responsible for sweeping change and
    modernization across the organization. Acted as a strong, hands on
    technical lead and change agent to bring modern development tools
    and processes into Engineering and affected positive change in IT,
    development, QA, release, and design. I worked very effectively as a
    technical leader while remote.
    
    Projects:
    * Technical Leadership, Change Agent, Team Building, and HiringBuilt
      and led three teams: one DevOps and two Application development
      teams. Hired the best talent available from within the company,
      across departments, and from around the world. Implemented a
      successful, modern hiring program which reduced waste and offered
      high levels of confidence in fit of candidates for culture,
      experience, and skill set. Hired eight engineers and increased
      engineering diversity using my process. Rebuilt the SDLC from the
      ground up to allow continuous delivery with a streamlined, agile,
      lean process and a culture of trust and shared responsibility.
      Made it successful by implementing 12-factor apps, an automated
      software delivery pipeline and increased collaboration and
      transparency with GitHub Enterprise, HipChat, and New Relic.
    * DevOps, Developer Tools, Infrastructure, and AutomationLead a team
      of DevOps engineers, known as Shire Ops. We quickly converted the
      engineering organization from Subversion to GitHub Enterprise and
      the open-source pull request collaboration process. While doing so
      we rebuilt the SDLC and increased our releases per year by 300%.
      We automated the delivery pipeline with Jenkins, Ansible, and
      Docker, which opened the opportunity for continuous delivery.
      Built the foundation that let us deploy easily to private data
      centers, and AWS in Germany opening up Europe as a new market. We
      were also able to upgrade our operating system by four major
      revisions across all data centers without downtime or interruption
      of the development process. Within a year Shire Ops took primary
      responsibility for the delivery and health of production
      operations in multiple data centers.
    * Architecture and Software DevelopmentLead a team of software
      engineers, known as Shire Apps. We are rebuilding our customer
      facing web application from scratch using Ruby on Rails. Avoided
      second system syndrome and redeveloped components one at a time by
      embedding new functionality into the existing user interface. This
      was seamless and allowed us to develop the next generation
      interface iteratively. Drastically improved performance and
      usability with each component we rebuilt. Created a culture of
      high quality development while delivering business value; our
      application was a joy to work on and easy to maintain. We did this
      through prototyping, BDD, and refactoring.
    
    
    Independent Software Consultant
    Self Employed
    March 2009-November2012
    
    Projects:
    * Security Remediation and Modernization for Experian CheetahMail
      Built static security analysis tools to find XSS and SQLi
      vulnerabilities in large-scale Perl applications with minimal
      false positives. Worked with a team of engineers on vulnerability
      remediation. Helped rebuild core implementation using best
      practices of modular, testable software design.
    * Internal 360 Degree Review Service for Startup Company Created a
      small team to quickly build and deliver a beautiful, feature rich
      360 degree peer review tool which modeled the company's
      organizational structure and managed the workflow of collecting
      and responding to peer feedback. Integrated into their internal
      SSO infrastructure and deployed behind their firewall with no
      access to the system.
    * Development and Architecture for a Preventitive Health Social
      Startup Joined a small team of developers building a preventative
      health social network with gamification of personal health goals.
      Quickly implemented solutions to challenges created by prior
      engineers' poorly tested work, and helped them get past critical
      technical challenges to move forward and go to market.
    * Realtime Geospatial Media Service for Technology Company Joined a
      small team to architect and build a realtime software product for
      live streaming video, video on demand, and photo sharing on a
      closed network for use inside organizations. Application includes
      geo-locating all media (live streams, video on demand, and photos)
      as well as agents responsible for generating that media. Operators
      of the system can view the status of all objects in the system in
      realtime including locations, streaming, and new generated media.
      Built application using Ruby on Rails 3, jQuery, CSS 3.0, advanced
      KML, Google Maps API v3, HTTP Live Streaming (HLS), Real Time
      Streaming Protocol (RTSP), VLC for transcoding, and MySQL
      Geospatial Extensions. Web user interface optimized for desktop
      and mobile clients.
    * Social Network Optimization and Visualization for Startup Company
      Completely overhauled the user experience, rebuilding the
      workflow, visual design, and focus of the application. Rebuilt all
      data visualizations using HTML 5, CSS 3.0, and jQuery for iPad
      compatible charts and graphs, and interactive visualizations.
      Rebuilt the in-app twitter client. Engineered visualizations and
      workflows to have real-time update capabilities in most areas of
      the application, with user control. Consulted the team on
      direction and focus of features and design, and contributed to
      project management and goal making.
    * Jobs Graph Social Network for Startup Company Early-project
      conceptualization and brainstorming, and later working with a
      development team building functionality by glueing backend work to
      design concepts. Built with Ruby on Rails 3 with jQuery. Developed
      integrations with third-party from LinkedIn, Plancast, and
      SlideShare.
    * Data Cloud Dashboard for Technology Infrastructure Company
      Developed a theme-able, dashboard interface on top of a RESTful
      data cloud product developed internally. Used jQuery and modern
      web techniques.
    * Grants Management Software for a Non-profit Foundation Built
      hGrant feed for display, filtering, and syndication in PHP using
      Symfony. Co-architected and developed new Grants Management
      software to facilitate the grant making workflow in the
      organization. Developed in Ruby and JavaScript with Ruby on Rails
      and jQuery. Built interactive, immersive dashboard interface from
      client mockups making heavy use of CSS 3.0, jQuery, HTML 5, and
      modern web design techniques.
    * Data Visualization and Aggregation for a Non-profit Assumed
      maintenance and continued development of Grantsfire. Developed in
      Perl and JavaScript using Catalyst, jQuery, XSLT, Microformats,
      OpenID, and MySQL. Improved performance; added data and
      administrative tools, feed validation services, OpenID
      integration; and performed sysadmin duties. Wrote the hGrant
      Microformat Specification based on existing work, implementations,
      and documentation.
    * Social Network, Scoring System, and iPhone Development for Design
      and Game Company Assumed maintenance and continued development of
      XEOPlay, the online social network for the Tilt, an iPad and
      iPhone game. Worked on performance benchmarks for the game on iOS
      devices and improved in-game score keeping and leaderboards.
    * Social Network and Online Game for a Civic Organization Developed
      and deployed the Drive Less Challenge social network and gaming
      tool for the 2010 challenge. Built with Ruby on Rails, Open ID,
      Facebook Connect, and modern web design techniques.
    * Volunteer Management System for Wikimedia Foundation Built
      volunteer submission system to give thousands the opportunity to
      participate in Wikimedia's strategic planning. Developed in Python
      and JavaScript using Django and jQuery. The application is
      internationalized (I18N) and localized (L10N) using Django, with
      additional custom languages added according to client needs.
      Performed system administration, including detailed Nagios service
      monitors. Application integrates with MediaWiki using its web
      service API.
    
    
    Lead Software Engineer, Infrastructure & Architecture
    CombineNet
    February 2008-March 2009
    
    Lead Engineer with focus on infrastructure and web application
    architectures.
    
    Achievements
    * Managed engineering effort through a comprehensive, 10-month
      infrastructure upgrade.
    * Advanced unit testing among product engineers.
    * Improved UX through RTE integration and Spreadsheet data
      validation.
    
    
    Lead Developer & VP Engineering
    Socialtext
    August 2005-February 2008
    
    Lead developer specializing in web application user interfaces.
    Interim VP Engineering.
    
    Achievements
    * Stepped up to be interim VP Engineering; lead engineering to meet
      company strategy.
    * Hired five senior software developers; managed twelve.
    * Completed redesign of software which aided in funding.
    * Lead R&D of new people oriented collaboration tools
    * Collaborated on OSI Compliant Software Licence for SaaS, CPAL.
    * Wikiwyg released on time, by Web 2.0 Conference, 2005.
    
    
    Software Developer
    pair Networks
    July 2003-July 2005
    
    
    Senior Systems Developer
    DynDNS.org
    August 2002-July 2003
    
    
    Senior Software Engineer
    Aaronsen Group
    August 2001-August 2002
    
    
    Software Engineer
    Agnew Moyer Smith Inc
    February 2000-August 2001
    

Community Involvement:

    Co-organizer
    Rails Girls Pittsburgh
    
    One of four organizers for this event which brought together local
    and national Ruby on Rails experts to teach women and girls how to
    program in a safe, friendly, supportive environment.
    

    Co-organizer
    Yet Another Perl Conference
    
    One of four organizers for this annual conference. Designed and
    implemented website, delivered keynotes, and organized social
    events. 10th Anniversary.
    

    Co-organizer
    Pittsburgh Perl Workshop
    
    One of four organizers for this annual conference. Designed and
    implemented websites for each year, managed sponsors, delivered
    keynotes, and organized social events.
    

    CPAN Author
    Comprehensive Perl Archive Network
    
    Dozens of software libraries released as open source.
    

A short list of some things I know about.:

  Languages
  
    * Ruby
    * CoffeeScript/JavaScript
    * Perl
    * Python
    * Haskell
    * C
    * PHP
    * Shell
    
  Services & OSes
  
    * AWS
    * Heroku
    * New Relic
    * Travis CI
    * GitHub
    * Mac OS X
    * Linux (Ubuntu, Fedora)
    * FreeBSD
    * Windows
    
  Software & Libraries
  
    * Ruby on Rails 4
    * Backbone/jQuery
    * Ansible/Chef
    * Catalyst
    * nginx/Apache 2
    * PostgreSQL/MySQL
    * Redis/memcached
    * Django
    * Jekyll
    
  Standards
  
    * HTTP (REST)
    * Realtime Web (WebSockets/PubSub)
    * Email Protocols
    * I18N
    * L10N
    * LDAP
    
  Process
  
    * Architecture and Design
    * Team Leadership
    * Agile/Lean/MVP Development
    * Responsive/Mobile Applications
    * Build Systems
    * Operational Security
    * Web Security
    * Scalability
    * Plugins and Extensibility
    
  Web Tools
  
    * HTML 5
    * CSS 3.0/SASS/Less
    * XML
    * XPath
    * XSL
    * KML
    
